# FEA-of-compression-test-of-Honeycomb-Structure-in-Abaqus
Title: Mechanical Characterization of Reinforced 3D Printed Honeycombs for Crashworthiness.  Highlight: Research is conducted according to an integrated experimental and computational approach to design, fabricate, test, and model structures through finite element analysis for validation and trade-off assessment. 
Abstract
Additive manufacturing technology enables the fabrication of complex structures with intricate geometries. Due to the vast available design space for creating such structures, there are many opportunities for discovering novel structures with unique designs that are mechanically advantageous. Here, incorporating internal shear rib reinforcement to conventional honeycomb structures is considered for enhancing their mechanical performance related to crashworthiness metrics. Research is conducted according to an integrated experimental and computational approach to design, fabricate, test, and model structures through finite element analysis for validation and trade-off assessment. Results demonstrate a significant enhancement in specific energy absorption for honeycombs with rib reinforcements: a single rib reinforcement improved energy absorption by 220%, while a double rib reinforcement further improved specific energy absorption to over 392% with minimal increases to relative density (less than 6%) compared to conventional honeycombs. Finite element analysis corroborates and validates these experimental outcomes, affirming the efficacy of the proposed structural modifications in strengthening mechanical properties. Rader plots illustrated the promising combination of enhanced crashworthiness and favorable trade-offs in double-reinforced structures. This study contributes to understanding 3D-printed honeycomb structures for lightweight, high-strength, and energy-absorbent applications.
Keywords: Additive Manufacturing, Mechanics, Lattices, Finite Element Analysis, Energy Absorption
 
